In this video, we got
to make our dashboards
far more interactive
by adding slices.
Rowan would like to be
able to filter all of
the visualizations on
the renewable capacity
tile by region.
But because we've turned off
the field buttons and we
can't currently see
the PivotTables,
it isn't really possible.
Fortunately, the solution
is really simple,
we're going to add a slicer.
Now we've actually
seen slices before,
if you come to your
drill down tab,
we've got a slice
of by region here.
If I click Eurasia,
it filters not just this chart,
but all of the visualizations
on this dashboard.
If I click Clear Filter,
it removes that filter.
We actually need to create
this slice from scratch.
I'm going to select it and press
delete and then we're
going to come back
to our dashboard.
To add a slicer,
you'll need to select
either a PivotTable
or a PivotChart.
We're going to select our
capacity by year PivotChart.
Then we're going to come up to
our PivotChart Analyze tab.
In the filter group you'll
see there are two slices.
We can add a timeline
slicer which
is great when you need to
filter by date information,
but you have to have complete
dates not just year.
We have the inserts slice,
this actually allows
you to filter
by any field in your data.
That's one we're going to go for.
Now we could add as many
slices as there are fields,
but we just want to region one.
I'm going to take
region and say okay.
As we saw before,
if I choose one of the
values in the slicers;
Europe for example, it is now
filtered the data to show
me the values for Europe.
If I wanted to see the values for
Europe and North America,
if I click the
multi-select button,
that will allow me to
select multiple items.
When I turn them
multi-select off,
you'll see if I now select Asia,
it clears the amplitude.
To clear the filter entirely,
I click the Clear Filter.
Incredibly intuitive
to work with.
There just two problems
with this slicer;
first of all, he doesn't
really tie in with the
look of my dashboard.
Second of all, it's only
linked to the one
PivotChart at the moment.
We're going to fix both
of those and we'll
start with the formatting.
Making sure you're
slicer is selected.
We're going to come
up to the slicer
ribbon and you should see
a gallery of slice's styles on
the left-hand side and if
you click the drop-down,
it'll give you a
few more options.
The dark options are a
little bit brightest.
If I choose that one,
it looks a little bit nicer,
but still a lot of white
for this dashboard.
Coming back to my slicer styles,
I'm going to click the drop-down.
If you don't like the
options available,
you can either had a brand new
slicer style where you start from
scratch and it's
actually quite a lot of
work or a little bit easier,
grab a slicer style that's
close to what you want,
duplicate it and then
modify that and that's
what we're going to do.
Coming back to our
dark sky-blue slicer,
we're going to right-click
and duplicate.
We're going to call this one dash
and then the first
thing we're going to
change is I'll slice as a whole,
so make sure that's
selected and click Format.
We'd like our fill to be black,
we're going to come to Border.
We don't want a border so
we're going to say none.
Then coming to font,
we're going to make it white and
size eight and then I'm
going to click Okay.
We'd also like to change are
selected item with data,
those are the blue buttons,
the one we've
actually highlighted.
I'm going to click Format,
font is already white
so that's okay,
we don't need to worry
about the border and
the fill is also fine,
that's all good.
Then the last one
we're going to look at
is an unselected item with Data,
I'm going to click Format.
Now, we actually
want these to be a
very dark gray so I'm going to
choose the dark gray and
let's just check the font.
Yes, we need that to
be white as well.
Then we're going to say, Okay and
that's all we need
to do for now so
I'm going to say, Okay.
Now that style is not actually
being added to this slice
yet so I'm going to come
back up and under custom,
you'll now see you have
a custom style called
Dash and when you click on
that, you can apply it.
That's looking much
better except with header
where we didn't change our
font color but that's okay,
because we actually want to turn
that header off altogether.
To do that, we're
going to come back
to our slicer ribbon,
come across the
slicer settings on
the far left and
untick display header.
You can also change
your sort order and you can
hide items with no data.
We don't have any at the
moment but we're going to turn
that on in case and say, okay.
One final tweak,
slices by default show
the filter options as
a single column but you
can actually change that.
I'm going to come up to
columns and we're going to
set that to four columns.
Then I'm going to
change my width to
14 and my height to let's say
1.9 it fits and then I can
just move my slice into place.
Formatting all looking great,
now we just need
to see how we can
link it to our other PivotCharts.
With your slicer still selected,
back on your slicer ribbon,
we're going to come to report
connections and this is what
makes slices so brilliant.
You can actually link them to
any of the PivotTables
and of course,
the related PivotCharts that
share the same pivot cash.
Usually that means
all the PivotCharts
and slicers from
the same dataset.
This is why it's often
a good idea to give them
sensible names but in this case,
we actually want to
link it to all of
them so this is not
just going to effect
this dashboard but our drill down
as well and then we're
going to say, Okay.
If I now select Asia,
it is filtered, not just
my original PivotChart but
all of the charts on this tile.
If I want to deselect
Asia and Eurasia,
I don't have my headers
anymore but I can just use
my control key and that will
select multiple values.
If I wanted to select
all of them again,
I can click back on Africa,
hold my shift key down,
click on South and
Central America
and it effectively
removes the filter.
Slicers allow us to create
a very intuitive way of
interacting with a dashboard for
your optional homework
add slicer for
our top five
investment and jobs in
renewable energy so they
can be filtered by year.